there has never been a better time to be
a gamer and a big part of that is all
these amazing retro devices that are
coming out that make playing old games
better than ever and today we have the
analog Duo this is the first PC engine
turbo graphic 16 Focus fpga console
which is pretty cool you might not have
ever played the turbo Graphics 16 if
you're in the west but the PC engine the
Japanese counterpart was actually a
better seller than the Mega Drive which
is the Genesis
in Japan and it has probably one of the
most underappreciated libraries of any
console ever it has the best classic
vany in my opinion it's got the Bon and
arzon games it has the start of the ease
franchise and finally it's easy to play
it getting a turbo graphic 16 is pretty
expensive you can get PC engines for
cheap but they look like a smoker ate
them and spat them out just like this
this uh white console is kind of pre-
smoker colored and I think I kind of dig
it the console itself is very
reminiscent of a turbo Duo which is the
combo device that they released uh that
was both the PC engine and the CD add-on
built in because the CD add-on actually
came later and with it brought some of
the console's absolute best games so
this is a pretty small package it's a
lot wider than other analog consoles uh
but it's not deeper which is nice so
that'll fit very well and because
there's no cartridge going on top you
could fit this in quite a small little
space on your retro shelf on the front
we have our power our Hue card slot and
our CD slot with the eject button on the
back we have our SD card slot ours came
pre-loaded with an SD card that has some
cover art on it but yours will not we
have an HDMI slot that can do up to 1080
p60 you have your two USBS where you can
use any wired controller which is really
nice and this one's actually type c
which is sort of new for the
full-fledged analog consoles the N Noir
the super NT and the me SG are all micro
USB which is not a huge deal cuz I'm not
unplugging replugging all the time but
it's nice that they've uh entered the
21st century on the bottom we have this
cool little analog pattern I think it's
quite attractive and it'll help prevent
it from slipping and sliding it's quite
grippy uh and the neat little wavy
pattern just like the turbo Duo had back
in the day on the top we have this
transparent bit that looks like you
should be able to see the CD spinning
but there's actually another smoker
beige piece of plastic underneath so you
cannot on the side we have the PC engine
controller Port it's cool that you can
use an original controller but if you
want to use a turbo Graphics controller
you actually need a little adapter
they're cheap but it would have been
nice for them to include it in the Box
the compromise is that they've built
2.4g as well as Bluetooth right into the
console so you can use the 8bit D
Wireless ones without a dongle we also
have our headphone jack just like the
original console had as well as our
volume rocker and the pairing Button as
well as what I believe are controller
Port indicators all right let's see what
else is in the box we have a little
analog sticker fpga and a quick start
guide we have the full manual PDF as
well as the most recent firmware uh
which is nice but even better is the
jailbroken firmware that's just been
released which we will try also included
is a is that what 3 ft C to C cable
which works with the included block uh
analog really recommends that you use
this block there's been some reports of
voltage issues with other ones it's a
bit of a shame I like to have four six
Port USB things so I can power a bunch
of devices at once so having to use an
entire block just for this to be safe is
a bit of an issue and honestly I
probably would risk it we're going to be
using the white analog today but it also
comes in Black so it's just a preference
thing one thing of note is that analog
has finally caught up to their demand
for many years it took years to get
stuff that you ordered what isn't
awesome is that there's actually no
controllers included with the device I
understand you're trying to keep cost
down but it's kind of frustrating if you
don't know that and you get this
beautiful device and you can't play it
and most stores aren't carrying these so
you have to wait another week or so to
get your controller just something of
notes make sure you get a controller
when you buy this but before we can get
to that let me tell you about our
sponsor vessie thanks to vessie for
sponsoring today's video vessie claims
their shoes are extremely waterproof and
keep your feet cool in the summer and
warm in the winter their storm burst
High toop shoes combine the comfort of a
sneaker with the grip and coverage of an
outdoor boot vessie has even added extra
layering for added warmth as well as
extra grip to prevent you from slipping
and sliding in unfavorable weather
conditions the storm bursts are feature
packed and make great gifts with the
unpredictable Spring weather coming up
check out the vessie stormur and other
styles at vessie shortcircuit and get
15% off your first purchase today all
right let's turn it on in terms of games
we have the super rare Keith courage
That You Don't See at every game store
ever power golf uh which I've never
played although I've been told it's
extremely difficult as well as my
favorite Shrek 3D we're playing on a
1440p display which is an ideal the
analogs cap out currently at
1080P and so there'll be some scaling
happening in the monitor that's fine for
today it gives us an idea of what we're
working with okay we load right into a
little tutorial pairing is surprisingly
easy Once you read the manual you hit
the pairing button on the console then
the 8bit D button on the controller and
then hold select for it to flash quickly
and then it paired in just a second and
way we go that's that's not bad truly
not a big deal I wish the pairing button
on the console was not so flush with it
I'm not sure if I'm touching an LED or
the button uh for the best experience
Duo requires a dedic dedicated SD card
uh it's good that I got one in there
from you memories L save States capture
screenshot Library reference level
database to catalog your game collection
games you play this is kind of neat in
your library every time you play a game
it'll add it and it'll show the time
played and theoretically could have the
art so you'll have a nice little
database of all the games you've played
it's not ripping the game seemingly to
the device like a poly Mega wood the
whole point of this over a mister is
that you want to put your real games in
if you're buying this to rip games to
this and you play other consoles just
get a mister display modes original
display modes Rec the appearance of the
original hard display such as the PC
engine LT and PC engine GT I'm not super
familiar with the specific display modes
that they're talking about that are
console based um but I do play a lot on
a CRT and that's one thing I really like
about analog consoles on Modern displays
is that they do a good job appr
approximating what a CRT would do to the
very primitive Sprites here we are at
Main men we got insert game we don't
have a game in right now that's fine we
have our library which shows all the
games that have been played on this
console if you're not familiar with the
PC engine /t turbo Graphics it's kind of
hybrid 8bit 16bit so it's more primitive
than the Mega Drive and the Super
Nintendo but it's much more advanced
than the NES or the Master System and
you can see right away with the amount
of colors as well as the Sprite detail
we're going to go to settings Duo system
and then we can mess around with my
favorite part of the settings so we have
our display mode so based on the
different consoles they all have
slightly different color profiles so we
have our display modes we have our mode
settings where you can adjust sharpness
inside the size menu we can set a custom
scale with our resolution here or make
sure that we're at integer scales of 3 4
5 if you're on a 1080p display I don't
think there's a reason to not do 5x we
have an option to show or unshow over
scan we can choose between RGB and
composite color in terms of audio we
have the Huard audio as well as our
volume selector it's nice this can
actually play every PC engine game ever
including the super Graphics games there
was like 16 of them that were made and
so it's very nice that it's just
included here we have Cedar options we
can choose the cedar format if we're
trying to like lock it into one specific
one we'll leave that on autod detect we
have our controller options uh again
autod detect I'm going to trust that it
works that's one of the strengths of the
analog systems when I play on my Mis at
home I often have to Tinker with things
and mess around with things if I want
just to plug something in and it works
exactly as intended I generally choose
an analog console for that this is
apparently os7 but if you have an analog
pocket it's going to look very familiar
although it doesn't have open fpga and
so I'm a little bit disappointed that
you don't get access to the multitude of
cores that are designed for open fpga
use and I think that's especially
disappointing considering that the card
adapters for the analog pocket have come
out and you can actually put Cube Cards
into an analog pocket using the adapters
now and there's a lot more options
available through the pocket if you're
you're playing handheld and they're even
updating it to be more versatile through
the dock at the end of the day the thing
that matters is does it look good and
does it play well and because this is an
fpga system it's probably going to be
fraking awesome there's imperceptible
lag they claim it's not emulation but
fpga is still emulation it's just way
better Hardware design specifically for
this one task and so I could play this
game but I want to play a game that I I
actually know much better and that is
Castle Rondo of
Blood the fact that I want to just play
this game and stop talking tells me that
this is a very accurate experience even
wirelessly I don't feel any lag it's
immediate response it looks good I wish
I had other filters I could play with to
get a preferred look but in terms of
play experience this feels awesome as
much as I want to sit here and play
through this entire game right now I'm
going to call in Tanner who has a whole
new perspective on retro games for
me all right what game do you want to
play what what do we have we have I
think our best games are legally backed
up in this beautiful Shrek Double Dragon
we have garu d tetsu special which I
don't know and Bong 3 which is another
great single player
game huh really oh multiplayer game one
of the issues I'm seeing now that we're
connecting two controllers is that
there's no indicator on the
controllers which Port they're plugged
into there's the indicator on the side
of here that tells you how many are
plugged in that's not necessarily the
fault of analog but that's a little bit
of an oversight for this controller
maybe they'll make a V2 that has like
more LEDs to indicate what we're doing
power golf Bonk 3 what we doing B 3 Bonk
3 two player two player it's probably
like Mario where it takes
turns oh it's like Sonic where we can
play at the same time so yeah you can't
when you jump on step you have to use
your forehead to to
see oh
no I was so excited to be giant for a
second honestly this picture looks good
the sound we're using a monitor so I
don't have very high expectations for
the sound I assume the sound is probably
pretty good yeah that's one of the
things I like about analog consoles is
that the sound works pretty well from my
Mis there's some consoles that just in
certain situations sound off and I never
really feel that with my analog consoles
I always am pretty darn certain that I'm
getting the right experience people that
are a little more familiar with this
Library games have noted that there are
some audio inconsistencies uh compared
to original Hardware but it seems like
it's nothing so serious that if this is
your first time playing TCN games you
would notice let's change the game we're
going to eject this one
that's not bad apparently some people
have been complaining about how far it
spits this out and it seems like a
reasonable spot where I can just kind of
pull it out there are reports of discs
becoming scratched in the console these
are old discs so these are not a good
indicator hold on before you do that
before you do that let's take a look at
what the bottom looks like oh you're
smart oh there's some chunks yeah the
these are not well cared for discs to
begin with so Mak a bunch of
differentes all right double drag double
drag Dragon let's go punch the mother
flers I think that the PC engine is such
an interesting piece of Hardware hold on
what's happening with the Sprites here
are you seeing what's happening yeah
that flickering I'm not sure if that's
accurate to the original experience or
not but it's definitely noticeable I
find it interesting how neatly between
8th and 16 bit the PC engine sits like
it looks better than NES games but not
quite as good as Genesis games I was
just playing Streets of Rage 2 on the
Genesis and it looks so much better than
this but this is so much better than
Double Dragon on the NES oh I forgot
about price it's
$250 seems like a lot but for the
polished experience that you're getting
I think it's pretty fair you'll know if
that's worth it to you overall if you're
the audience for this you probably
already know it if you want a very easy
out of the box experience that's very
accurate very simple to use the analog
consoles are great if you're someone
that's trying to maximize your dollar
and get every system and you're not that
concerned with plugging in real
cartridges or CDs this probably isn't
the best move even with the jailbreak it
makes a lot more sense to save the money
on this and your next analog console and
combine that and get a Mis the Mis
experience is just as accurate takes a
little more work to get running properly
but then you have access to pretty much
everything all the way up to PS1 do you
regret your playing this now I do not
regret my pre-or I got exactly what I
thought I was going to get out of the
box and the fact that it's already
jailbroken means that all of my legally
backed up ROMs are easily playable I
don't have to burn a bunch of discs to
make that happen and I'm a big fan of
easy and consistent like short circuit
if you like this video why don't you
check out the video where Emily unboxes
the analog pocket the device I think is
the better option for most people